---
layout: post
title: Programming Is Frustrating
---
# Programming Is Frustrating
Programming is incredibly frustrating. It’s frustrating to feel wrong so many times, repeatedly, sometimes constantly for hours on end. It’s frustrating to search and search, only to resign yourself to failure, and find a misplaced semicolon an hour later. My eyes droop, my morale drops, and I lose interest. This is the biggest error I make when working on projects-if I am not actively engaged in what I am doing, it seems almost impossible to continue with the work. The truth is that it’s going to be a long time before I’m comfortable sitting down and coding confidently. Now I move slowly, rotating between help forums and questions with my mentors to video tutorials. There seems to be some wall that I have yet to reach where I will be sure of myself and able to problem solve naturally. Bloc works to help me, forcing me to sit down for hours and commit myself to a problem-solving mentality. It gives me the opportunity to really pick apart the methods of web development, and learn the mechanics. The ability to ask my mentor any question or specific clarification is invaluable to my education and the furthering of my future. Some prominent issues I’ve had are typically when beginning to solve a problem. I have no issues with the creative process once I understand how to begin and structure my solution, it’s the getting started that crushes me. I really get stuck when I feel like I have no idea how to begin, which impedes my confidence and thus my problem solving skills. This brings about a revolving door conundrum- I lack confidence which lowers my enjoyment and interest in the project, which then slows me and makes things even more difficult and less enjoyable. The best way to avoid this is by practicing further, and finding projects I really care about so I can engrain the process in my mind. I have projects in mind, but my biggest issue seems to live on-I find the most strenuous process of all is sitting down and getting started. Once I’m in the thick of work, I enjoy it immensely and feel inspired and glued to the work. The way to repair this is once again to throw myself into projects that solve a problem dear to my heart or influential to my future. My next goal is to start implementing my dream projects and begin to care more about the work I am doing so it does not feel like a chore. I’m excited to continue on my journey with Bloc, and use the skills I learn to further my confidence. I plan to also use these skills to create a website I maintain to keep track of my progress in many avenues.
