---
layout: post
title: Importance of Comp Sci
---
# Importance of Computer Science
My educational pursuits have forever been catalyzed by a desire to gain awareness of my place in the world around me. The world can seem wrought with misery that is often chalked up to a failure to communicate successfully. It’s evident that the path to a more interconnected and thus efficient world is through bridging these gaps through innovating modes of communication. These days, the most prevalent and instantaneous innovations are created and deployed through the internet. This is now an immutable tenet of our culture that is reflected constantly through news of world-changing technology across all avenues. Technological proficiency is inherently vital to becoming an authority in a field and having the means to alter your community for the better.  A member of society that is educated in Computer Science is in an optimal position to be capable of using their skills to effect change. My work at Bloc will help to build the skills I need to construct a portfolio, and demonstrate my abilities to future employers. Learning the ins and outs of software development is a difficult task, albeit one that will be rewarding as time goes on. Once I am gainfully employed and self sufficient, it is my ambition to share my skills and knowledge with those that haven’t had the opportunities that I have. This is done through creating resources for more untethered access to Computer Science for all citizens. The cornerstone of a successful and just society is one that offers means to the less fortunate, to work hard and be able to advance by this hard work. This effect is one that can be multiplied tenfold by initiatives centered around improving access to technology for children in underprivileged areas, as well as furthering programs designed to keep them focused during the summer and weekends. The educational system in Chicago is a failure and there is a great void in the world of good programs to get kids started on a meaningful path. It is our duty as citizens to help each other and build a world that we want our children to thrive in. Children need to be inspired to build skills and become passionate about the affairs of our world. We need to give those who want to succeed free and accessible resources to do so.
