---
layout: post
title: Journey into Web Development
---
# Journey into Web Development
When I left high school, I was extremely conscious of the increasingly competitive job market I’d be facing in a few years. The first few months I felt like I was floating through, unsure of where I’d want to work, what I’d like to do. I’ve always loved school, playing sports, and generally was a well developed and curious young person. Somehow when I looked out at the world as a semi-adult, I started to become severely less confident. It all seemed to be a dark spiral of uncertainty that seemed to taunt me, reminding me of my own uncertainty and lack of decision-making ability. I needed to get myself on a path to revamp my self-esteem and find something that made me feel excited about life again. My father supported me greatly, and offered advice on ways to research career prospects and how to advance on this path. I was grateful for this, as my life seemed hectic and a bit disjointed; I needed to find a way to melt my interests together into a job that would utilize my strengths. My whole life I’ve had a variety of things I was interested in. I’ve always loved books and learning about the world, sometimes fiction, and at other times politics and language. I’d alternate through various interests, at one point I was certain I would be a neuroscientist, at another I was suddenly compelled to write for a living. Over time it has become increasingly clear to me that in this progressive era, individuals are expected to do it all to achieve their dreams. Careers are built through years of chipping away the harsh marble of naivety and building a real skill set of wisdom. I know now in order to achieve my aspirations, I need to be vigilant with my work in all facets. The way to success is through assembling a marketable skillset that allows you to become useful to society. Developing programs to help people is a vital skill in a market that is becoming more and more dependent on technology, and this is a big part of my attraction to programming. I’m confident that my emergence into the tech world will help to consolidate my interests and make the most of the potential I have to help support the community and my family. I’m grateful to have the opportunities to learn every day and be in contact with people who are wise and well versed in the topics I’m fascinated by.
